In this video, we'll do a
little bit of an overview of
Linux and some of
the history behind it
and how it became,
started to use in
embedded systems.
If you want to trace the story
of Linux and embedded systems,
you can start by
talking about the TiVo.
The TiVo debut in
1999, just before Y2K,
where this was really one of
the first cases that we
had Linux running on,
what we call an embedded device.
Not really a computer anymore,
now an actual product
that a user would buy.
The TiVo was one of
the first products to
do time shifting of TV,
so allow you to
record live TV on
a hard drive and re-watch
at a later time.
It was one of the
first applications
that the hardware was
advanced enough to run Linux and
because of all the things
that the box needed to do,
the storage aspects, the video
aspects that were
already built into
Linux it made a lot of sense to
leverage Linux as a part
of the implementation.
Fast-forward through
to present day,
as of 2017, there are 2
billion devices running Linux.
Really the 2000s,
the early 2000s have just
been an explosion of
products that are using
Linux as the embedded
operating system.
Why would you want
to run Linux on
your embedded operating system?
Part of the reason that the book
Mastering Embedded
Linux Programming
discusses is due to Moore's law.
Moore's Law says that,
" the capabilities of
processing roughly
doubles every 10 months."
What this means is that
embedded systems and
really all computing
platforms have had
exponential growth in terms
of CPU processing capabilities.
The additional burden that's
associated with being
able to run Linux,
is really less of a hurdle
in every year than it
was the previous year.
In other words, as our
computing platforms
for embedded have gotten
more and more powerful,
it's become easier
and cheaper for us to
include Linux as a part of
the embedded distribution.
Why would you want to
use Linux if you can?
Because there's a lot of
functionality that's
built into Linux that
there's really no
reason to recreate
yourself and if you were
to recreate yourself,
the amount of engineering
effort that you
would need is huge
compared to what you
could do if you can leverage
the work that's already done
by members of the community that
have similar needs to
your embedded product.
For instance, supporting
for scheduling,
scheduling threads
and scheduling
that's happening in the operating
system, network stacks.
Anything related
to TCPIP or web,
which is usually a pretty
common feature of embedded.
USB and Wi-Fi, Bluetooth,
all those hardware
standards that are
very popular on
embedded products,
there's levels of support
built for all of
that into Linux.
Storage so the
ability to record,
to flash or to hard disk drives.
There's a long list of
functionality that is
common and has been
implemented in Linux,
has been tested and used
on platforms for
a very long time.
Being able to leverage that in
our embedded systems
is a big bonus.
Linux is already ported to a
wide range of architectures.
For instance, if
you want to use ARM
due to cost constraints
or the fact that
you can really hit
your price targets with
that particular platform.
There's already Linux
ports available
and you can already run ARM.
There's several
other architectures
like that we can leverage in
an embedded systems and are
already supported by Linux.
It's open source and modifiable.
What this means is
that if you find
a problem that's specific
to your individual device,
you don't have to
go try to convince
some operating system
manufacturer or developer,
that they need to fix
this problem for you.
You have the source,
you can change it yourself,
or you could find experts
that know the part of
the source that you need change
and have them change it for you.
That's a pretty big
benefit in terms of
embedded systems development and
the freedom that you have
and the flexibility,
you have choosing Linux
as your operating system.
There's also an
active community.
For every project that you use,
every open-source
component that you use,
there's a community of
people on mailing lists that
are experts in that
particular software that are
available to help answer
your questions and help
get you unstuck if you're
stuck on some
specific problem with
that software and there's
no vendor lock-in.
Because it's an open community,
there's lots of different
people participating from
both business and
personal perspectives.
There's no one company that's in
charge of controlling the
roadmap for the software.
There's no one company that
you're beholden to in terms of
what features are going to
be available and what you
can do with the code that's
available from Linux.
It's all up to you
since you have
access to the
source and can make
the modifications
yourself if needed.
Some of the things
that you need to consider
before you decide if
Linux is the right solution for
your hardware or your
embedded system design.
It will need a more
powerful processor,
probably more storage
and more RAM than if you
were just going to do a very
simple embedded design.
Some of the designs
that you've done
already with simple
microcontrollers,
you might not really have
the opportunity to run
Linux just based on
hardware limitations.
For Linux you will need
a 32-bit processor,
you'll need roughly
at least 16 megabytes
of RAM and 8 megabytes of flash,
which every year becomes
less and less of a hurdle.
It's much easier to find
platforms that can support
this level of flash
and RAM availability.
You also need a memory
management unit,
so a dedicated piece
of hardware on
the device that manages
memory for you.
For all practical purposes,
there are ways to
get around that,
but it's much easier
if you have an MMU.
Those are the hardware
limitations that you need to have
in order to know that you'll
be able to support Linux.
You're going to need
a set of engineers
that have some abilities
in Linux development,
so that will be you after
you complete this course and
there may be some
real-time applications
where Linux is not a great fit,
or where you need to do
some custom tuning to
the kernel to bring in
real-time extensions.
That's outside the
scope of this course,
but these are some
of the things that you'd
need to think about it in
the context of a
specific development
to know if Linux is
the right platform.
Who are the players in
Linux software development?
Who is responsible for bringing
new releases to you
or for adding support
for the platforms?
First, there's the
open-source community,
which is really just an
alliance of developers that
run the gamut of
different goals, desires,
including not for profit
companies, academics,
and also commercial companies
that are all participating
in development of Linux
as open-source
software developers.
There's generally a group of
open-source developers for
every set of applications.
The individual applications
that we'll talk
about as a part of the course.
They build tools that we're
going to use to build
the embedded Linux
distributions.
Behind every one
of those groups,
there's a set of individuals
that are developing
that particular software and
that's the group that's going to
have the experts in it that
you're going to be able to
reach out to with questions.
Also, the group that
you'd go to if you
wanted to make a
change to discuss what
your change is and
ultimately submit patches
for their review and
approval to be added
into the software.
Then there's also
CPU architects,
SOC vendors, board vendors.
These are the people that
are making the hardware
that's going to run Linux.
A lot of times what you'll
see is they'll try to
make it as easy as possible
for you to incorporate Linux,
so they'll create what's called
BSPs or board support packages,
that bundle all the things
that you need in order to
be able to run Linux on
their particular hardware and
create a reference design
for you so it's
easier for you to get
started running Linux
on their hardware.
More reasons to run Linux.
If you're using software,
there's essentially
a shelf life.
One of the benefits
of using Linux
is having this dedicated
community behind you.
It's too much for you to be
able to keep up with every
single software package.
Keep up as new packages
are developed.
As new compiler
versions come out,
you want to be able
to leverage all
the work that's being done in
the community to
stay up to date.
Bugs are a fact of life.
They're going to happen in
every software application.
You want to be able to bring in
the changes from the community
that fixed bugs as easily as
possible and to be able to
keep up with that without
a lot of individual work
from your software
development team.
The BSPs that I talked
about previously,
companies might start with
one particular version of
the kernel for their
BSP implementation.
But they might not
necessarily keep that
up-to-date going forward,
like they might have
an example that they
did when the hardware was
first developed and maybe
now you're going to
use the hardware and it's
two or three years later,
maybe their BSP is still
referencing an old version
of the kernel for instance.
Using Linux allows you
to do your own work
to customize what
they've given you and
bring it up to date and
stay up current with
the most recent Linux
applications or
Linux kernel especially with
fixes for security bugs.
Part of the reason that
it's important to keep
up with security issues,
you may have heard of the
HeartBleed case from 2014,
and this was a bug in a very
popular OpenSSL library where
OpenSSL is used to secure
communications that
happen over the Internet.
Even to this day, or as of 2017,
there was a study that was
done that said almost 200,000
devices are still running
in the field with this bug.
Part of the reason that
they were running
with this bug is that
they weren't able to
make it a part of
their development process to
incorporate updates easily.
While that's something that
the Linux community is
going to allow you to do,
there's some work you need
to do in order to do that
and there's some tools that can
help you keep up
to date with that,
like [inaudible]
that we're going
to cover in this
part of the course.
But the main thing to
know here is that being
a part of the community
and keeping up with
the new releases that come
from a community can help you
solve this problem in Linux in
a way that it wouldn't if
you were trying to roll
your own distribution and
responsible for every
single part of the process.